---
title: Hallucinations
draft: false
date: 2017-11-16T19:44:00Z
author: vanessa
lat: 19°211
long: 21°433
slat: 19.35
slong: -21.71667
---
I was on watch this morning when a large splash on the horizon caught
my eye. At first I assumed it was a breaking wave, although on a calm
morning with just a gentle swell that would be surprising. I kept
watching in the direction of the splash and then I saw it. A large
whale leapt half way out of the water and then came crashing down,
making an almighty splash. I had been down below five minutes before to
wakeup Vanessa and Jacob with a rather tuneful rendition of "Morning
has broken" and they were in the process of getting up, or at least
opening an eye. I called down the companionway that there was a
breaching whale on the horizon. Five times the whale entertained my
with its leaps and splashes, but by the time the crew emerged on deck,
bleary eyed, all that could be seen was a faint puff of spray as it
took a breath before diving deep below the ocean surface. Needless to
say neither Jacob nor Vanessa believe it was there. They think it was a
ruse on my part to get them out of bed, or worse still, the
hallucinations of a man whose been on watch too long.

We've made good progress over the past 24 hours and are no longer the
tail-end-Charlie. Over night we were consistently sailing at over six
knots under gennaker, but this morning the wind has dropped and
according to the forecast, we are likely to spend much of the day in an
area of light winds. We have swapped the gennaker for the Blue Water
Runner, which involved clearing the decks of flying fish. Jacob managed
to rescue one in the middle of the night, but this morning there were
three large ones and two teeny, tiny ones. It's so sad to think of them
ending their fishy lives mid-leap.

The other entertainment over the past 24-hours has been a fly cull. We
seem to have acquired a sizable swarm of flies during our stay in
Mindelo. Vanessa has been chasing round the cabin with a can of fly
spray, but I'm not sure that is very sporting. Instead I adopt a more
traditional method. Armed with just a tatty tea towel I stalk around
the cabin, with the silence of the chase only punctuated by an
occasional thwack as the tea towel smacks into the varnished mahogany a
few microseconds after the fly has exited stage left. My first sortie
resulted in three dead flies. These "trophies" were lined up on a piece
of kitchen paper and photographed! (You really do struggle to find
entertainment in the middle of the ocean). I did suggest we added an
extra column in the log to keep a tally of the fly cull but I was
overruled. This morning I think we are down to just two flies, but
these survivors are clearly graduates of the "Top Gun" school of flying
and are proving impossible to hunt down. My chief concern is that they
find somewhere to lay eggs and then, in true Darwinian fashion, we
could be overrun with a whole swarm of "Mavericks" and " Icemen".

St Lucia is now just 1,890 nautical miles away. That's roughly
equivalent to driving to the Alps and back twice which doesn't sound
too daunting, but we are traveling at just 6 miles per hour. Now where
has that tea towel gone?!
