---
title: Sailing has its ups and downs
draft: false
date: 2017-11-20T16:3:004Z
author: vanessa
lat: 16°122
long: 34°133
slat: 16.20167
slong: -34.22333
---
There are two very different strategies being adopted by 
the fleet. Some are choosing to stay north close to the 
rhumb line (the shortest route to our destination) while 
others have headed south in the hope of finding more wind. 
We thought about heading south but changed our minds and 
so we're now wallowing in the middle with very little 
wind. We really need to be able to fly either our Blue 
Water Runner or the gennaker to make any progress, but 
both of those need the spinnaker halyard and that is 
currently snoozing in the aft locker rather than running 
up through the mast as it should be. We sent Jacob up the 
mast a couple of times yesterday to try and fix the 
problem. The aim was to to run a mousing line from the top 
of the mast to the bottom, and then use that thinner line 
to pull the spinnaker halyard back up. It sounds easy in 
principal but when the mast is gyrating wildly it become a 
race against seasickness. The end result: mice 0 
seasickness 2.

Rather than accept defeat, we decided to hoist the Blue 
Water Runner using the spare halyard. The problem with 
this rope (apart from the fact it's green despite being on 
the port side) is that the line it follows is far from 
ideal. To reduce chafe we added a short piece of plastic 
pipe to the end, and  to make sure we could hoist the sail 
before it started to fill, we neatly tied orange wool at 
metre wide intervals along its length. Then came the 
moment of truth. It went up perfectly; as the wind found 
its way into the sail, each loop of wool progressively 
snapped, and the sail "unzipped" itself and set 
beautifully. 

We made good progress for the next few hours and so to 
celebrate, I decided to try out my home made fishing lure. 
All the other boats in the fleet seem to be catching fish 
in abundance, whereas our efforts to date have proved 
woeful. This was obviously down to poor equipment rather 
than any lack of skill, and the clear solution was to make 
something that would be more appealing to a passing tuna. 
A cork, some silvery strips from a crisp packet and some 
reflective tape produced a lure which looked surprisingly 
squid like. It had eyes and everything. I cast it into the 
sea and watched it stream out behind the boat, the silver 
tails catching the sun. I was awash with confidence; how 
could such an attractive amuse bouche fail. Unfortunately 
I never had time to find out. There was a bang as the 
green halyard parted and the Blue Water Runner once more 
dived into the sea. Once more we wrestled the sail back on 
board, and once again we set our poled out gennaker to 
resume our snail like progress westward. On the plus side 
we are getting much better at setting up the spinnaker 
pole, all we need now is some more wind.
